The bear, Harvard, was staring down at Amy again. She bent her head down, making sure he could see her flared quills. That was all she could do chained to the wall with her hands tied.

She wasn't strong enough to beat him. She wasn't fast enough to run. Not loud enough to call for help. Her dignity was all she had now, and she wouldn't give that up to him too.

Harvard just smiled. That evil, cruel smile. He grabbed her head with his bare hands, lifting her to eye level. "You are adorable when you try to look intimidating," he mused. She hissed in response. Chuckling at her continued attempt, he brings his hand to her chest. She flinches at the touch, then cringes as he grips her shirt. With a swift motion, he tears the front off, letting the back fall off.

Amy tries to hide her discomfort when he puts his hand in her skirt and underwear. But she can't control the squeak that comes out when his knuckle brushes against her clit. He quickly tears off the rest of her clothes, then drops her back on the ground.

Before she can properly recover, he puts his hand over her face, rubbing the blood from her quills into her face. She backs into the wall, but can't go much further than that. Some of the blood gets into her mouth, and she tries to spit it out. It only allows him to stuff his fingers in, making her gag from the taste. He bends down toward her and holds her sides. He pushes his lips against hers. She refuses to open her mouth again until he starts licking her lips, forcing them open with the roughness of his tongue. She grunts, trying to push him out, kicking her legs, anything to get him away. But it does nothing to stop him.

He moans as he moves away from her mouth, a string of saliva between them. Harvard grabs Amy again by the throat, forcing her back towards the other wall.

Amy fights like this might actually work one day. Harvard laughs at her struggles. "Keep fighting sweetie. It makes me more excited." he purrs in her ear. Amy squawks, thrashing about more vigorously. His other hand moves down to his growing erection. Once he rubs it to its full length, he pushes Amy against it.

She blanched at the cock near her bottom. It was long and very wide. She felt it push against her more. Her anger faded and her heart began pumping furiously. "Wait, n-no, that won't... t-that won't f-f-" she spoke for the first time since she got hear, her voice high and shaky.

Harvard kept pushing more, breaching her entrance despite, or perhaps because of, the friction. He stared into Amy's widening eyes. With a sadistic grin, he snarled, "I'm going to enjoy breaking you."

"I-I can't! I'm not r-r-eady...!" Her cries go ignored as he pushes into her fully. Barely wet, the intrusion into her pussy feels like a hot rod moving within her, melting everything. She screamed. It echoed through the room. This made Harvard groan; the feeling is so satisfying. Her pain, both physical and emotional, gave him that rush he so craved.

Before long, blood dripped from within her pussy, spilling onto his throbbing cock. It didn't do much to slicken the movement, but Harvard thought it looked so pretty upon him. By now, Amy's screams had become breathy sobs as her body tried to do anything it could to relax itself. He moved a hand to wipe a streak of her tears, only to then put a finger in his mouth and taste the salty water. She closed her eyes. She couldn't look at this monster anymore.

Eventually as he pushed farther into her, he reached an end. Amy's belly had a large bump in it. She could feel her pulse there. It caused her to hyperventilate, she was afraid it would tear. Just as Harvard began to pull out a bit, he thrust in again hard. She cried out, her voice hoarse and low. He kept thrusting, hitting the end of her canal over and over. More blood came out of her, splashing onto her fur and onto the floor. Then he stopped thrusting.

And he kept pushing instead.

Amy was in a full-on panic now. She struggled and squirmed and kicked. Even though she knew it was useless now. It wouldn't stop him. But she couldn't stop either. The pain was getting worse, beyond anything she thought possible. She felt like she was being torn apart. She realized she was. More blood. More tears.

"P-lease," she begged, coughing. Anything to make it stop. It wouldn't work. But something. She had to do. Something. Anything. Please. Not this.

The sound of flesh ripping filled the room. As the final waves of pain hit her, they were even worse than any before. The only noise she could make now was a low gurgle. Blood filled her throat, her chest, and everywhere else. And it left her too. It was all over the place. She managed to look downwards. Her skin. Fur. Split apart. By this massive... thing. Red streaked with white. Stained pink and tan. Faded it. Eroded it.

The world turned black and white around her, colorful dots lined her vision. The last thing Amy heard was that horrid chuckle of Harvard's. She finally lost consciousness after that. Retreated into her mind. There was nowhere else to go.


...

...


The lights in the sky moves about like ocean waves. Red and pink reflected off the white snow, making it appear to glow. Amy stared in awe at the surroundings. She hadn't thought such an empty-looking place like Aurora Icefield could have a view so spectacular.

She looked over to her partner. Bark seemed just as entranced as she was. The view never got old for him. His eyes were half-lidded, and he had a peaceful smile. It set Amy's heart aflutter to see him like that.

She snuggled up closer to him. In turn, he wrapped his arm around her back, pulling them closer together. Amy sighed happily and closed her eyes, letting herself drift off to sleep, safe and happy in her lover's arms.

...

...