[Starting from "Three thousand years ago" and ending at "in search of more adventures", text is from Sonic News Network Wiki-Sonic Adventure-Plot. Starting from "I just never imagined you", ending at "Plot [edit]" and starting from "Development and Release [edit]", text generated from Inferkit AI. This is under CC BY-SA 2.0. The formating may be a bit strange because of where text was generated or copy pasted. Beta read by Grammarly. And myself, I suppose. I've made slight edits for "consistency" so to speak.]

"I just never imagined you.

Your ashes will be in the glass urn in my office.

I think it's a great final home for you.

It's silly, I know, but I still can't help but feel sad.

I imagine you snuggling up in the bottom and know you will always be close to me now.

Thank you for being such a good friend.

Please don't ever leave me again.

If someone were to describe me in one word, it would be strong.

I'm someone who faces challenges head-on.

I think it has something to do with the person I was brought into this world as.

When I was a kid, my mother never failed to remind me that there were other kids like me out there.

I know it helped me to overcome a lot of obstacles that came my way.

Growing up, I was surrounded by strong women.

I was the youngest in my house so I naturally shared a special bond with my Grandmother.

I also have an older sister who is the strongest person I know.

I've heard stories of how she's been down so low she wondered what was going on.

It took all of her energy to get back up.

She's now a Navy officer.

My mother is also the strongest woman I know.

She has experienced her own challenges, but she just gets up and keeps going.

She keeps fighting and never lets anyone tell her she can't.

She's also an amazingly strong woman.

She is resilient and stands tall.

I was also very fortunate to have great-grandmothers.

They were also strong women.

They raised seven kids in a house with one bathroom.

I know they didn't always have much money, but they always seemed happy.

I feel like I'm following in their footsteps.

I love you, Grandma Delores and Great-Grandma Mable.

To my mother and my aunt, thank you for always taking care of me and putting up with my nonsense.

You are both amazing women.

You have taught me how to be strong.

I wouldn't be who I am today without your support.

To my grandma, I'm sorry for not being there for you when you needed me, but thank you for being such an amazing woman.

You are my inspiration."

-Knuckles the Echidna, Chaos

Chaos is a 3D platformer video game in the Sonic the Hedgehog series developed by Sega AM3 and published by Sega. 

Originally released for the Sega CD system, the game was remade for Dreamcast, Xbox, Windows, and PlayStation.

The game follows Knuckles the Echidna on his journey to defeat Doctor Eggman and recover stolen Chaos Emeralds.

"Chaos" was noted for its quirky narrative, solid 3D platforming, and Sonic's absence in a Sonic title for the first time in years.

Critics praised the soundtrack and criticized the game's lack of online multiplayer and major single-player content.

"Chaos" was re-released for Xbox 360 via Xbox Live Arcade and as part of the Sega Ages line.

"Chaos" is a side-scrolling 3D platformer in which players control Knuckles the Echidna.

The player's goal is to run and jump through the game's various stages.

The gameplay is reminiscent of Sega's other 2D platformers such as "Sonic the Hedgehog" and "Sonic the Hedgehog 2".

The game contains nine stages with some unlockable extra stages, boss fights, mini-games, and extra unlockable content.

For example, the bonus stages in "Chaos" feature various Sonic characters including Sonic, Tails, and Amy.

The unlockable content features mini-games such as golf, hockey, boxing, and basketball.

There are also unlockable leaderboards that allow players to compare their scores against others.

The game has a three-day time limit and all levels take place in one day.

In addition, the game features a time attack mode and password system.

"Chaos" is a one- to four-player cooperative game.

Players can create alliances and then team up and go through the game in real time.

Knuckles starts the game with one health point.

If he loses all three, he will go back to the last health point.

If Knuckles loses all of his health, he will lose a life and the game ends.

A health point counter is displayed at the bottom of the screen.

If it reaches zero, Knuckles dies.

The game has a jump button, a double jump, a bubble shield, a quick-travel button, and a "stop" button that stops the game.

Knuckles will have to jump through different puzzles such as flaming rings, chasms, floating blue platforms, floating flowers, and spinning yellow eggs.

The game contains numerous Easter eggs, such as password items for previous Sonic games and extra levels unlocked only if the player finds all of the Sonic and Knuckles tracks hidden on the player's disc.

The player controls Knuckles the Echidna, who has returned to his home of Echidna Land to recover his stolen Chaos Emeralds.

After rescuing Sonic, Tails, Amy, and Rouge, Knuckles must battle Doctor Eggman's evil robot forces in order to recover the Emeralds.

Knuckles fights his enemies using the abilities he gains from each Chaos Emerald, such as boomerang-powered punches and his Dark Emerald attack.

The enemies' attacks can be either light or heavy, depending on the Emerald type.

The game ends when Knuckles dies, either from losing all of his health points or from being hit by an enemy.

In addition, the game features a time attack mode and password system.

"Chaos" was the last game developed by Sega AM3, with Yuji Naka becoming the president of Sonic Team.

"Chaos" was one of the first "Sonic" games to employ 3D levels, which proved to be a challenge for the developers.

The game's opening sequence was influenced by U.

Plot [edit]

Three thousand years ago, the Chaos Emeralds and the Master Emerald were both kept at an altar near the territory of a clan of echidnas, specifically the Knuckles Clan. A peaceful echidna named Tikal, daughter of Chief Pachacamac befriended the Chao that lived at the altar and their protector, who was the water god Chaos. When Pachacamac sought to expand his clan's territory, he wanted to steal the Chaos Emeralds and use their power to defeat his rivals. Although Tikal and the Chao stood against him, he ordered his soldiers to charge anyway, resulting in many Chao being injured. This enraged Chaos, who transformed into Perfect Chaos and destroyed all of the echidnas, except for Tikal, who sealed herself away in the Master Emerald with Chaos, and the magic caused the area surrounding the shrine to become Angel Island, also known as the continent in the sky.

In the present day, the evil scientist Dr. Robotnik happens to stumble across the Knuckles Clan's ancient shrine while building his underground base at the heart of the Mystic Ruins' jungle. There, he manages to decipher some stone tablets, which tell of the legend surrounding Chaos. Eager to use the beast for his own selfish intentions, the doctor finishes his newest stronghold, Final Egg, and starts to work on building the Egg Carrier, an all-purpose aerial fortress. Additionally, he creates the E-100 Series, an army of shooting Badniks. Robotnik's plan is to tame Chaos and use it to destroy Station Square to build his own city, Robotnikland, on its ruins; with the Egg Carrier and the E-100 Series created to help him achieve this goal.

Underneath a glittering sky at nighttime, a familiar shadow runs through the populated city of Station Square. This figure, who passes cars on the highway, runs on the walls of buildings, and jumps across rooftops, turns out to be no one other than Sonic the Hedgehog, who has just returned home after a long journey to train himself. While he is enjoying himself, however, he hears a blaring siren and then notices the Station Square Police Department staff rush to City Hall. Following the police, he sees them surround Chaos, only to notice upon opening fire at it that their weapons are useless against it. As the staff retreats, Sonic steps in and defeats the beast, but it escapes through a water drain. Meanwhile, Dr. Robotnik has been observing the hedgehog's clash with Chaos, confident in the latter's supremacy despite its defeat.

The next day, Sonic is relaxing by a pool in Station Square until he sees Tails crash on the beach in his newest biplane. Hurrying to Emerald Coast, Sonic finds Tails. The two later have a small conversation in Station Square where Tails tells Sonic that he was using the plane to test the power of a Chaos Emerald he had found. Sonic is then convinced to come to Tails' Workshop in Mystic Ruins to see a project of his. However, when they get there, Dr. Robotnik shows up to steal Tails' Chaos Emerald. With the heroes refusing to hand the Emerald over, Robotnik tries to take it by force with his Egg Hornet but is defeated. However, he still manages to steal the Chaos Emerald from Tails. He then reveals Chaos to the heroes and gives it the Chaos Emerald, turning it into Chaos 1. Robotnik then gloats that with every Chaos Emerald he gives to Chaos, the creature becomes more powerful, with his ultimate plan being to make Chaos invincible with all seven Chaos Emeralds and then use it to destroy Station Square and built Robotnikland upon its ruins. After that, Robotnik and Chaos 1 retreat. Sonic and Tails thus decide to counter the doctor's plans by securing the other Chaos Emeralds to prevent Chaos from transforming.

Sonic and Tails quickly find two Chaos Emeralds: one in Windy Valley and another in Casinopolis. However, after leaving the latter, Robotnik ambushes the duo and steals their Emerald before knocking them out with sleeping gas. The next day, Sonic and Tails come to. Continuing onward regardless, Sonic and Tails go to Icecap and retrieve another Chaos Emerald. However, they run into Knuckles, who believes Sonic has stolen some of the Master Emerald's shards. The two fight, only for Sonic to drop his Chaos Emeralds during the scuffle. Robotnik then shows up and takes the Emeralds, having tricked Knuckles into fighting Sonic so he could steal Sonic's Chaos Emeralds while they were occupied, and gives them to Chaos 2, transforming it into Chaos 4. Regardless, Sonic still defeats Chaos 4.

In the aftermath, Robotnik's Egg Carrier appears and picks up Robotnik, prompting Sonic and Tails to chase after the vessel in the Tornado. However, the Tornado gets shot down during the fight with the Egg Carrier, and Sonic falls down in Station Square. While looking for Tails however, he runs into Amy, who asks him to protect a bird she is looking after. Although Sonic refuses to heed Amy's request, they are found by ZERO. While Sonic is ready to face the robot, Amy heads into Twinkle Park in hopes of getting a date with Sonic after seeing that "cute couples get in free". Sonic follows Amy into Twinkle Park but loses track of her. Knowing Amy is in danger with ZERO hunting her, Sonic tries to find her. After finding no signs of her in Speed Highway, he sees Amy being hauled away by ZERO in Station Square.

Following ZERO and Amy to Mystic Ruins, Sonic tries to save Amy, but the Egg Carrier then arrives and picks up ZERO and Amy. As Sonic chases the Egg Carrier into Red Mountain, it eventually escapes his reach. Fortunately, Tails shows up in the Tornado 2, and Sonic hitches a ride with him as they chase after the Egg Carrier together. Following an aerial battle with the Egg Carrier, Sonic and Tails crash-land on the vessel. As they try to get to the bridge, however, the Egg Carrier changes shape, making the duo's trek harder. Taking a detour through the Sky Deck, Sonic and Tails arrive as Amy is confronting Robotnik, who grabs Amy's bird and takes a Chaos Emerald out of the pendant it is wearing. He then calls in E-102 Gamma and orders him to get rid of the heroes before leaving. Sonic fights Gamma, but Amy stops Sonic from destroying Gamma, insisting that it is her friend. Deciding to trust Amy, Sonic leaves Gamma be. However, the Egg Carrier then begins to lose altitude. Sonic thus has Tails take Amy to Station Square while he goes after Robotnik.

Sonic soon finds Robotnik, only to see that he has given the two more Chaos Emeralds to Chaos, transforming it into Chaos 6. Big the Cat then shows up, with the intention of rescuing his friend Froggy from inside Chaos 6. With his help, Sonic defeats Chaos 6. After the battle, Sonic meets Knuckles as Robotnik leaves. Trying to catch the doctor, Sonic follows him off the Egg Carrier. Landing in a part of Mystic Ruins with an ancient shrine in it, Sonic sees a floating orb heading toward it. Believing that it is trying to show him something, he ventures into the shrine, and eventually finds a mural with Perfect Chaos depicted on it. He then finds himself taken to the past, where he sees the Altar of Emerald on fire. Finding Chao lying on the ground and Tikal running towards the Master Emerald, he is taken back to the present. There, he finds Robotnik flying toward the Final Egg. Following Robotnik into the heart of the base, Sonic confronts the doctor and his Egg Viper. After defeating him, Sonic sees Robotnik retreat and he reunites with Tails once again. 

Miles "Tails" Prower is flying along in a new plane when, suddenly, it crashes by the beach in Station Square. After Sonic rescues him, Tails reveals that the plane was powered by a Chaos Emerald, and proceeds to ask Sonic to meet him in his workshop in the Mystic Ruins to show him what he has been working on there. Here, they are met by Dr. Robotnik in the Egg Hornet. After the Egg Hornet is destroyed, Robotnik steals the Chaos Emerald and feeds it to Chaos, who had just arrived.

Tails and Sonic head to the Windy Valley and Casinopolis to collect two more Emeralds; however, one of them is taken by Robotnik. They head to the Mystic Ruins to collect another Emerald. Upon leaving Icecap, they encounter Knuckles. Due to a misunderstanding, Tails and Knuckles fight. Robotnik, taking advantage of the situation, snatches away the Emeralds, once again giving them to Chaos. After a battle with Chaos 4, Robotnik escapes in his Egg Carrier. Tails and Sonic give chase in the Tornado, but the plane gets shot down in the process. Tails lands in Mystic Ruins, only to find out that Sonic is missing and the train workers are on strike and therefore cutting off access to Station Square. After a flashback to the "good old days", Tails decides to do without Sonic and ventures into the jungle in search of a Chaos Emerald to rebuild the Tornado. He finds the red Emerald here but runs into Big the Cat's friend, Froggy, who proceeds to swallow the gem. After giving chase through the Sand Hill, Tails catches up with Froggy, but is taken back in time and meets Tikal. When returned to the present, Big accidentally gives Tails a shock, causing him to lose grip on Froggy as a result.

Next, the Tornado 2 is built. During the flight, Tails meets up with Sonic at the peak of Red Mountain and gives chase to the Egg Carrier. Despite the stormy weather, the two managed to evade much of the Egg Carrier's attacks. Upon landing, Robotnik immediately activates the transformed state that deactivates the monorails. Then, Sonic and Tails go through the Sky Deck. They find Robotnik, Amy, and E-102 Gamma. Sonic tells Tails to take Amy to safety while he goes after Robotnik. Next, the Egg Carrier collapses, and Tails and Amy make it safely to Station Square. Amy bids goodbye to Tails, and soon after Robotnik crashes into nearby the train station after being defeated by Sonic. Undaunted, Robotnik launches a missile as a last-ditch attempt, but it turns out to be a dud. Angered, Robotnik blasts the doors of a skyscraper and threatens to detonate the missile. Tails, realizing that the fate of the city is in his hands, gives chase. After a long endurance race through the night, Tails reaches the missile first and deactivates it. Frustrated at his failure, Robotnik unleashes an Egg Mobile - the Egg Walker and prepares to annihilate Station Square. All of the citizens run for shelter, leaving Tails - without Sonic's help, to fight with Robotnik. In the end, Tails wins and the citizens cheer. While heading back to the workshop in Mystic Ruins, Tails meets up with Sonic to end the story. 

As Knuckles the Echidna rests beside the Master Emerald thinking over the story of his life, he wakes up to find Chaos next to the shattered Master Emerald. Unaware that this is Robotnik's doing, Knuckles assumes that Chaos is behind the shattering of the Emerald and goes on to attack it. However, the beast blindsides him and escapes, and, suddenly, Angel Island falls into the sea next to the Mystic Ruins. Knuckles arrives in Station Square to find the pieces of the Master Emerald. He finds a few pieces in Speed Highway and Casinopolis, but is flashed into the past to a place he's never seen before, but is somehow familiar to him. He overhears Tikal trying to stop her father, Pachacamac, from invading someone's "sacred grounds," but returns to the present before getting the details. He then spots Robotnik heading into an elevator in the hotel. He notices the shine in Robotnik's hand and believes it to be a piece of the Master Emerald so he follows Robotnik. Knuckles then gets into a fight with Chaos 2, and after winning the battle, Robotnik tells Knuckles that Sonic is after the emerald pieces. This gets to Knuckles, wondering why the blue blur would want them. He then heads into the jungle, where a power-up is found. Knuckles heads to Red Mountain and finds three more shards. A few minutes later, Knuckles finds Sonic, and the two duke it out. But it was all a trick from Robotnik so he could nab the two emeralds they had. He gives them to Chaos, causing him to transform into Chaos 4. Knuckles does eventually defeat him; Sonic and Tails go after Robotnik, and Knuckles goes solo to find the rest of the pieces.

A moment later, Knuckles finds the keys to an abandoned Ziggurat called "The Lost World", finds three more shards, and is sent back to the past. He meets Tikal again and is sent to his time... right in front of the altar. 85% of the Master Emerald is restored. The last three shards are on Robotnik's fortification, the Egg Carrier, but Knuckles has no idea where the fortress is. As he walks across the bridge, he spots E-102 Gamma heading to the jungle. He decides to follow the robot to the jungle and into the fortress, which takes off. Soon, he finds the last shards but ends up getting sent to the past, this time with the altar under a thick flame. He walks over to Tikal and attempts to find out what's going on, but fails when Tikal rushes to the Emerald, causing him to get sent back to his own time. He spots Robotnik and Chaos and rushes toward them. Robotnik retreats, with Sonic on his heels. This leaves Chaos, who has devoured 6 of the Chaos Emeralds, at Knuckles' merciless spines. After a long battle, Chaos relinquishes the Chaos Emeralds and retreats, with Knuckles saying "Yeah, you're finished!!" The Egg Carrier loses its balance and self-destructs, but Knuckles flies back to Angel Island to prevent himself from getting burned.

Back at the Island, Knuckles restores the Master Emerald to its normal state, allowing the giant gem to hoist Angel Island back into the heavens. Knuckles is once again at peace. The Master Emerald is repaired for the first time. 

Amy Rose is taking a stroll in Station Square, reminiscing about the good 'ole days when suddenly the city is shadowed by the Egg Carrier, and a small bird falls down from the sky. The bird was held captive, along with its family, by Dr. Robotnik on his airship. Amy then befriends the bird, who she nicknames "Birdie", and promises she'll help it get home with its family. After a stroll through the town, she runs into Sonic and asks him to guard the bird, though Sonic strongly declines. She follows him to the entrance of Twinkle Park. Unfortunately, ZERO appears and before Sonic battles with it, Amy notices a sign that apparently says "Cute Couples get in free" and readily enters the park while Sonic follows, trying to stop her. After making her way through Twinkle Park while avoiding ZERO, she makes it back to Station Square and finds Sonic gone. Before she can continue with her search, she is captured by ZERO.

Amy is taken to a cell aboard the Egg Carrier where she is guarded by E-102 Gamma. He demands she hand him the bird, but she refuses. She then demands that he tell her why he wants the bird, but he himself does not know. She pleads with Gamma to help them, but he questions why she cares for something she knows nothing about. She says she pities him because love is not a part of his programming. The bird flies out of the jail cell and looks Gamma in the eyes. Gamma then tells them to escape and deactivates the cell. He tells them it is dangerous and that they'll be at the Mystic Ruins base soon. She comes to a room and plays through a game where she gets the Warrior's Feather. While venturing through Hot Shelter, she has another run-in with ZERO. When she grabs a hold of the balloon and drifts back in time to meet Tikal after finding Chaos' shrine. She then drifts back into the Egg Carrier. She makes it to the deck and is cornered by Robotnik. Fortunately, Sonic and Tails also make it to the deck. Robotnik grabs the bird and takes the Chaos Emerald around its neck. He calls out Gamma who is ordered to destroy them. After fighting Gamma, Sonic tries to deliver the final blow, but Amy defends the robot, telling Sonic he helped her. The Egg Carrier begins to lose altitude and Amy tells Gamma to be free. Gamma asks why she is helping him, to which she responds that she promised they'd be friends. She then leaves with Tails as the Egg Carrier crashes.

She returns to Station Square and bids farewell to Tails and goes to Mystic Ruins to help the bird find its family. After searching through the jungle she finds the bridge leading to Robotnik's base. She goes through Final Egg and once again meets with ZERO, but escapes. After deducing that the bird escaped from the Egg Carrier, she goes back to the now sunken Egg Carrier. The bird finds its family but ZERO knocks out the bird with its telescopic fist. After noticing the perpetrator of the attack, Amy becomes enraged and prepares to fight Zero. After battling and eventually destroying the robotic pursuer, the three birds are reunited and Amy vows to be the best she can be to impress Sonic, and hopefully make him respect her. 

Big the Cat is sleeping on his bed when Froggy, his best friend, awakens and spots Chaos. Froggy bites off Chaos' tail, causing him to grow his own tail. Big wakes up and is worried about Froggy, who is driven insane by the possession. Froggy devours a Chaos Emerald, which Big calls his lucky charm, and runs away, leaving a worried Big following behind.

When the sun rises, Big finds himself in Station Square, where he sees the crazed Froggy go into the sewers. He hoists a black car and follows Froggy to Twinkle Park. Big manages to fish Froggy out, but the crazed amphibian retreats. Big soon finds a key to Icecap, grabs a Life Belt, and heads into the icy area. He fishes Froggy out, but Froggy, yet again due to his insanity, takes off. 

Big heads towards the Emerald Coast and finds Froggy on one part of the Great Sea. After fishing him out, Big turns to go home, but E-102 Gamma grabs the crazed frog from Big and heads off somewhere, with the worried feline pleading behind it. Big boards the Egg Carrier, and tries to pick up Froggy's scent, but fails, so he decides to find him in the Hot Shelter. He realizes that to get Froggy out, he must activate the switch. After doing this and fishing Froggy out for the last time, Big turns to exit but is transported to the past. He encounters Tikal for the first time, before returning to his normal time. He gets out of the Attendance room and heads out, but spots Chaos and freezes in horror at the sight of him. Dr. Robotnik arrives and gives Chaos the Emeralds, causing him to enlarge again. Froggy then hops into Chaos' body, restoring the beast's tail. Sonic arrives and realizes Chaos has gotten bigger, then Big carefully fishes Froggy out of Chaos' body and escapes under the hedgehog's orders. Suddenly, the Egg Carrier is about to lose altitude, but Big spots the Tornado 2 and flies to the jungle moments after the flying fortress self-destructs and crashes into the Great Sea.

Big and Froggy are now home and enjoying peace again. Froggy is no longer insane, and Big is celebrating. 

Dr. Robotnik introduces himself to the second robot in the E-100 series, E-102 Gamma. His training involves E-102 seeking and searing the Sonic doll in Final Egg. After that, Robotnik introduces Gamma to his older brother, E-101 Beta, and pits them to a small duel. Gamma achieves victory, but E-101 boards the Egg Carrier for repairs and a Level Up Item. The fortress then flies off into the sky.

A moment later, Robotnik announces to Gamma and his younger brothers, E-103 Delta, E-104 Epsilon, and E-105 Zeta, to find and capture Froggy, who's been driven insane by Chaos' tail and has eaten a Chaos Emerald. Gamma heads to the Emerald Coast, grabs Froggy, and is about to return when a blinding flash takes him back in time. He tries to figure out his location, but it doesn't work. He heads to the alter and lowers his cannon at the presence of the Chao. Tikal rushes to their aid, but she realizes Gamma's not part of the Knuckles Clan and gives him some helpful information about the Chaos Emeralds, the Chao, and their draconian protector, Chaos. Gamma then reverts to his own time.

After that, Gamma and his brothers argue over whose frog is the one, but stop when Robotnik walks in. Irritated, Robotnik tells them that the frog he wants is crazed, and settles when he spots Froggy in Gamma's hands. He proudly congratulates Gamma for his capture and dismisses Delta, Epsilon, and Zeta for their idiotic failure. He then tells Gamma to find the bird that Amy is with, then departs. Gamma accidentally gets into the wrong room, where he spots Beta being destroyed, remodeled, and upgraded. He quickly gets to the dungeon where he encounters Amy and the bird, and attempts to persuade her to give him the bird. Amy persistently ignores his orders and tells him that love isn't part of his programming, to which Gamma angrily replies that she knows something that she shouldn't know. Then the bird flies to Gamma and looks him straight in his eyes. Agitated, Gamma orders them to flee by opening her cell, then heads to the attendance room, where Robotnik orders him to get the jet booster from the ammunition room. After that, Gamma heads to the main bridge of the Egg Carrier and engages Sonic in battle. Just as he is about to sear Sonic to ash, Amy interferes. She tells him to remember her and says that he should ditch Robotnik, much to Sonic's surprise. Suddenly, the Egg Carrier is about to lose altitude. Sonic races off after Robotnik, while Amy says that she and Gamma be friends. He asks why she is helping him, and she replies that friends always help one another. Gamma, Tails, and Amy escape as the Egg Carrier self-destructs and crashes into the Great Sea. 

Searching his files, Gamma realizes Amy's words and decides to go rogue, beginning his own quest to find and save his brothers. He finds a switch to Windy Valley, explores it completely, spots Delta, and battles him. Following this, he heads to Red Mountain, goes into the magma chamber of one volcano, finds Epsilon, and defeats him. After that, he realizes Zeta and Beta are on the Egg Carrier and heads towards it via canoe. Gamma enters the Attendance Room and opens the doors to the Hot Shelter lair, where he goes through its tunnels and spots Zeta, who has transformed into a large cylinder-like monster. Gamma engages in battle, sears Zeta's head off, and escapes from the Hot Shelter. He gets out of the Attendance room and spots Beta flying towards a field, then heads to it and engages in battle.

After a long battle, Beta crashes to the ground. Gamma walks over, but Beta shoots him at point-blank range in the face, sending him back. Beta self-destructs and releases a bird, just seconds before Gamma does the same. This brings a tragic end to Gamma, but he has set all the animals free, including himself, and accomplished his duty. 

It is revealed that Chaos has survived. Dr. Robotnik mutters about his hatred of Sonic, knowing that he cannot spoil his master plan. He stops and spots Chaos, who mauls him. Angel Island has fallen again.

Knuckles knows this as well. He decides to take the Chaos Emeralds to Sonic for advice but spots Robotnik lying on the ground. Robotnik's mutter of pain is "This is terrible!! C-Chaos is..." Knuckles asks "Is what?", but is interrupted when Chaos appears and attacks them both, stealing the Chaos Emeralds.

Sonic is relaxing by a tree when Tails tells him that Angel Island has fallen. When they get there, they spot Knuckles and Robotnik in serious pain. Knuckles tells Sonic and Tails that Chaos has survived and has stolen his Chaos Emeralds. Robotnik heads off on his mobile and searches the jungle for a replacement fortress. Knuckles tells Sonic about Chaos' ferocity and states that if he gets the last Chaos Emerald, death will come. Sonic knows that he'll find it before the renegade does, but is sent to the past for the last time. This time he spots the Altar under attack from the Knuckles Clan, who knock Tikal to the ground and injure many Chao after Pachacamac disregards his daughter's pleas once again. This enrages Chaos, who devours the Chaos Emeralds and goes berserk. Sonic heads over to Tikal and asks if she is okay. Tikal realizes Chaos is wreaking havoc and seals him and herself within the Master Emerald for all eternity in order to stop him before it is too late.

Sonic returns to the present day. Tails says that they have to get the last emerald before Chaos does. They head over to Big's hut and spot the Tornado 2. They are about to get the emerald, but Chaos devours it and goes on a rampage in Station Square, flooding the city. Sonic, who now realizes how vicious Chaos really is, spots the Egg Carrier 2 from the corner of his eye and realizes that Robotnik is after the renegade Chaos. Robotnik attempts to engage in combat by opening fire, but the effort fails, and Chaos demolishes the fortress to ruin with a massive beam of energy, sending Robotnik flying away screaming in pain. Sonic is getting aggravated with Chaos' ferocity, but Tikal arrives. Sonic realizes Tikal sealed Chaos in the Master Emerald. She states that her heart's been always with the Master Emerald as well as Chaos', but he is full of rage and tragedy. If he is not stopped, he will bring destruction to the world as he did centuries ago. Chaos then discards the now powerless Chaos Emeralds; Tikal demands that Chaos be resealed in the Master Emerald; but Sonic refuses, telling her that doing so will not change how Chaos feels. His heart will still remain in turmoil and his anger will not vanish; he'll just be trapped forever, and history will just repeat itself as it did before. Sonic's allies then gather the Chaos Emeralds and Tails states to Sonic that Chaos has absorbed the Emeralds' negative power, and that Sonic should be able to harness their positive power, to which Knuckles reluctantly agrees with. Using the positive energy of his friends and the citizens of Station Square as they cheer while Tails explains that both negative and positive emotions empower the Chaos Emeralds, Sonic transforms into Super Sonic. He then flies off to engage the gargantuan deity in battle.

After its defeat, Chaos reverts to his Chaos 0 form, as his anger and rage have faded. He spots several Chao and knows of their peacefulness. Tikal arrives and tells Chaos that the Chao have been living peacefully with mankind for a long time and will continue to do so. With the fighting over and harmony restored, Tikal and Chaos ascend into the sky and disappear in a flash of white. Seconds after, Robotnik flies away. Peace is back once more, and Sonic runs off in search of more adventures. 

Development and release [ edit ]

Chaos was developed by Sega AM3 and was originally released for the Mega Drive/Genesis in 1993. The game was based on the toy line of the same name from the Toys "R" Us chain and was Sega's first action-adventure game since "Phantasy Star IV" for the Sega Genesis (1992). It was later released for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES) in North America and Europe in 1994, and for the Game Boy Advance (GBA) in 2002.[4]

"All of the action sequences in the game, including the first level, were choreographed to music. This was a very different approach for an action game, especially for Sega. Previously they had used combat sequences or entire levels to be played in-game, but now everything was done to an orchestral score."[5] —Andy Seto of 1UP.com, describes how Chaos was a turning point for Sega and the Mega Drive/Genesis.

Chaos was directed by Yuzo Koshiro, who would go on to direct the SNES/GBA versions of its predecessor, Phantasy Star IV, and the Sega Genesis/Megadrive version of Sonic CD. While Chaos was originally designed for a handheld game system, Koshiro and his team reworked the game for the Mega Drive/Genesis console as its creator, Yu Suzuki, had difficulty handling the size of the sprites on the Game Gear system.[6] Before its release, Sega stated that it would be their most expensive game to date.[7]

The Genesis version of Chaos was widely praised by critics. It was included in Sega Power's Top 50 Mega Drive Games of All Time, was placed among GameSpy's "Top 5 Dream Castings" of Sega games, and was given a full 5 out of 5-star review by Joystick Division.[8] Joystick Division's review commented that "the designers have come up with a fantastic game that will grab your attention and will not let go. Chaos will have you laughing, then crying, then laughing again. This game is magic. This is what gaming is all about."[8]

An unauthorized bootleg version of Chaos was released in Japan for the Sega Saturn in 1997. This version, known as Chaos R (ロシア REi Sugereto), was developed by Avalon Studios.[9] The Genesis/Mega Drive version of Chaos was included as a bonus game in the 1999 Sega Genesis Collection for PlayStation and Windows. Chaos has also been released as a bonus game for the Sega Ages Ages From Hell 2 for the PlayStation 2 and the Xbox 360, the Sega Genesis Collection (now Sega Ages line of Japanese titles), and the Sega Genesis Revival Kit.

Reception [ edit ]

At the time of its release, Chaos received very positive reviews. It was praised by Sega-16.com, which described the game as "unique and much different from other 2D action games on the Genesis" with "one of the best soundtracks ever."[10]

In their book Genesis: The Definitive Guide, Ted Woolsey, and Carl Smith commented that "Chaos has a rich character design and memorable soundtrack" and that "tactile joys abound."[11] The book Special Effects: Action Games for the Genesis notes that the characters were "exceptionally lifelike" with "humorous" dialogue and a "charming cartoon look."[12]

The game's cover art, featuring the character Raoul, was also commended as being visually unique for a Genesis game.[5] 1UP.com's reviewer, Andy Seto, claimed that the graphics were "on par with anything else on the system" and that the game "still looks great today".[5] Critics and players also praised the game's soundtrack. Bob Mackey of Allgame commented that the music "seemed designed to be sampled and played as frequently as possible to maintain the intensity of the action", while Joanna Ross of Sega Power referred to it as "one of the best soundtracks ever produced for a videogame."[5][13] 1UP.com's reviewer also praised the game's soundtrack, adding that the tunes "set the tone, and brought Chaos to life".[5] However, Seto was less enthusiastic, remarking that "if you're going to have an innovative soundtrack, you'd think that you might have a decent composer to back it up." He further criticized the voice acting, which he found to be "pretty awful".[5]